Blog post for moving data between JBOD disks using Cruise Control (#469)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2025-01-31-moving-data-between-JBOD-disks-using-cruise-control.md

---
layout: post
title: "Moving data between JBOD disks using Cruise Control"
date: 2025-01-31
author: shubham_rawat
---

Apache Kafka is a platform that provides durability and fault tolerance by storing messages on persistent volumes.
In most cases, each Kafka broker will use one persistent volume.
However, it is also possible to use multiple volumes for each broker.
This configuration is called JBOD storage.
Using JBOD storage, you can increase the data storage capacity for Kafka nodes, which can further lead to performance improvements.
It might happen that you need to add or remove volumes to increase or shrink the overall capacity and performance of the Kafka cluster.
When adding new volumes, you first need to add the volume and then move some data to it.
That can be done using the [_intra-broker_](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/in-development/deploying#con-rebalance-str) rebalance.
When removing volumes, you have to safely move the data to other volumes first.
Failing to do so could result in data loss.

> Moving data between the JBOD disks can be done using the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` tool, which is not very user-friendly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data movement between JBOD disks can be managed using the `kafka-reassign-partitions.sh` tool, though it is not particularly user-friendly. 
```

> Therefore - in Strimzi 0.45.0 - we introduced the ability to move data between the JBOD disks using Cruise Control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify this process, Strimzi 0.45.0 introduces support for moving data between JBOD disks using Cruise Control.
```
